---
title: "Why I deleted my TikTok with 135,000+ followers."
date: 2023-01-10T09:00:00-00:00
---

???

_If you're interested in a video version of this post,
check out [the following from my YouTube.]()_

---

In January of this year, 2023, I made the decision to delete my TikTok
account; an account with over 135,000 followers, millions of likes, hundreds of
videos, and countless comments. The “John Codes” page on TikTok is no more.

This was not a decision I came to lightly;  there is “no turning back” from
this. I knew I had to consider every angle, think deeply on how this would
affect me, and what I would be communicating to my audience and the larger
“TechTok” space. Although, I seriously doubt I will be missed.

When I first started posting content, it was never about likes, followers,
influence, money, or power. It was always about sharing my joy of technology
and programming with others. It was about starting the discourse on interesting
and difficult topics in tech. It was about connecting with a community. It was
about having fun.

I loved talking about Vim, the Go programming language, how cool Kubernetes is,
cyber security principles, current news in tech, and hearing from people all
over the world.

But, in early 2020 when TikTok was gaining mass popularity *beyond* just dances
and trends, the platform itself was drastically changing. The community
guidelines became more strict. Without warning, the guidelines would be
modified, redacted, and updated.

Time and time again, I had videos about cyber-security and CVEs get taken down.
My account suffered constant community guideline violations and constant
appeals. At one point, I was *1 takedown away* from having my account
permanently banned:

![TikTok ban](/images/tiktok-ban.jpg)

One particularly bad take-down was when I discussed the nasty OpenSSL
remote-code-execution vulnerability from late 2022. That video was taken down
after receiving some 20,000 views in a few hours (and in TikTok terms, this
meant the video had the velocity to reach millions of people within a day or
two). But this resulted in a strike against my account, despite the fact that I
didn’t talk about or disclose *anything* that wasn’t immediately available in
the public CVE.

In other-words, simply *mentioning* that there was a massive OpenSSL CVE, much
like a journalist would talk about it, lead to an immediate de-platforming of
the content. I appealed the decision and nothing changed: the only
communication I had was a notice that the video was removed for promoting
“Illegal activates and regulated goods”. To this day, my only assumption is
that by discussing cyber-security, according to TikTok, I am inadvertently
encouraging the masses of the platform to go exploit vulnerabilities.

And as the community guidelines continue to change, content that was posted
years ago has *************retroactively been************* taken down resulting
in strikes against my account. This means that content that was at one time
“ok” by the community guidelines *is no longer seen that way* and the creator
receives punitive action regardless of *when it was posted*.

The “TechTok” space has become a heavily censored one. The community guidelines
envision a world where CVEs don’t exist, cyber-security practices are a heavily
regulated activity, and pen-testing is something only nefarious hackers do. My
content is no longer welcome there and at this point, it has only become a
matter of time before my account is banned.

So, on my own volition, I’ve decided the best thing for me is to take the
account down myself.

So much more could be said about TikTok’s impact on the mental health of its
users, the endless cycle and demand for constant content from its creators
(least you fall into obscurity!), how it compensates the creators with pennies
on the dollar, and the app’s questionable practices spying on America citizens
for a foreign power.

In short, I refuse to be apart of a platform that consumes my creative energy
but rejects an open discourse in favor of a sanitized, problem free world.

Goodbye TikTok and the “TechTok” community. It was fun, but it wasn’t that fun.
